# PhyloFAdb - Phylogenetic Fatty Acid Database
http://phylofadb.bch.msu.edu

Plant based database of fatty acid compounds.

- This website is derived form the Seed Oil Fatty Acid (SOFA) database
- (http://sofa.mri.bund.de)
- Aitzetmüller, K., Matthäus, B., & Friedrich, H. (2003). A new database for seed oil fatty acids—the database SOFA. European Journal of Lipid Science and Technology, 105(2), 92-103
- Matthäus, B. (2012). The new database seed oil fatty acids (SOFA). Lipid Technology, 24(10), 230-234.


### Notes

> July 2015

---

Loaded SOFA literature listing. Skip authors and journal, will grab from TAB files (better formatting)
`thor pub:stub lib/data/sofa_lit.csv`

- Created 15170 publications
- Created 8829 unique plants

---

Loaded SOFA molecules.
- set NLS_LANG 'AMERICAN_AMERICA.WE8ISO8859P1'
- convert greek characters to words (∆ to -delta-)
`thor mol:load lib/data/molecules.html`

673 total items:
- Parameter: 9
- FattyAcid: 587
- Sterol: 19
- Triacylglycerol: 49
- Tocopherol: 9
- Measures with a cas registry number: 255

---

Loaded SOFA TAB_xxx files. Grab publication by tab_id, update its author/journal. Create results for each measure. Log ambiguous measures to `ambiguous_measures.txt`. Log hidden tables to `tab_with_no_pub.txt`
`thor tab:load lib/sofa/`

* convert Triglyceride to Triacylglycerol
* convert greek characters to words

- 15601 total files
- 13628 files loaded without error
- 44 files loaded with an ambiguous measure (first match chosen)
- 337 files with data but no matching pub (hidden in SOFA)
- 1592 files empty

- 19736 new data points loaded

---

exported all plant names for TNRS annotation
`out = File.open("plant_names.txt",'w')`
`Plant.find_each do |p|; out.puts "#{p.id},\"#{p.family} #{p.name}\"";end;nil`

http://tnrs.iplantcollaborative.org/TNRSapp.html
email: throwern@msu.edu
key: c5e86298f7194373a84d5c9df5d2285b

---

Load TNRS names
`thor plant:load_tnrs lib/data/tnrs_results.txt`
_ 8829 total names processed
- 5689 Accepted names
- 1870 Synonym (used accepted name)
- 1 Orthographic variants
- 956 No opinion
- 313 No matches found (Illegitimate,Invalid,Rejected,No Matches Found)

---

Load lipidmaps IDs manually generated
`thor id:load_lipid_map lib/data/fatty-acid-lipidmaps-search-7-17.csv`
- 236 items processed
- 62 with ID
- 66 indefinite
- 107 not found
- 1 unknown

---

Load pubchem IDs based on cas lookup
`thor id:load_pubchem lib/data/cas-pubchem-kate-7-17.csv`
- 673 items processed
- 255 matches loaded
- 27 with cas had no pub

---

Get InchiKEY from CAS rn on Toxnet. Output found ids to `cas_found_inchi.txt`. not found ids to `cas_not_found_tox.txt`
`thor mol:get_lm`
- 73 FattyAcids with cas number and data points
- 47 Found on chemidplus toxnet database
  
Load lipidmaps data based on inchikey (structure, lm_ID, mass, formula, pubchem cid, systematic name, trivial name)
`thor mol:load_lm_data lib/data/LMSDFDownload6Apr15FinalAll.sdf lib/data/cas_found_inchi.txt`
- 47 inchi keys supplied
- 39 LM entries found and FA's updated

> Not in LM: 
> WLIGEPWCQYIUNZ-QGZVFWFLSA-N :: delta - 12-OH-18:1-delta-9a, pubchem - 5312857 
> CGTVVCFTVVGYPL-UHFFFAOYSA-N :: delta - 6-OH-6-Me-9=O-28:0, pubchem - 194014 
> MTWGWIOCIREVRF-KRWDZBQOSA-N :: delta - 17-OH-18:4-delta-9a,11a,13a,15a, pubchem - 4204 
> BDAGIHXWWSANSR-UHFFFAOYSA-N :: delta - 1:0, pubchem - 284 
> XMVQWNRDPAAMJB-UHFFFAOYSA-N :: delta - 18:1cy, pubchem - 72853 
> CUXYLFPMQMFGPL-MRZTUZPCSA-N :: delta - 18:3-delta-9c,11t,13t, pubchem - 93077 
> SRELFLQJDOTNLJ-HNNXBMFYSA-N :: delta - 16:1cy, pubchem - 164601 
> WBHHMMIMDMUBKC-XFXZXTDPSA-N :: delta - 12-OH-18:1-delta-9c, pubchem - 643684 



### License

Copyright © 2015 Michigan State University Board of Trustees

Licensed under the terms of the GPL 3.0 license. See LICENSE and COPYING for details

This work was funded by the DOE Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center (DOE BER Office of Science DE-FC02-07ER64494).

